Hello, my friends.
All right, are you ready to start this big implementation of your very first artificial brain?
Well, I'm definitely ready.
So let's do this.
Let's mash this together.
All right.
So we're going to start with the data repricing phase, which we will tackle in the same tutorial because
we quickly want to get to the interesting stuff.
So let's do this efficiently.
Thanks to our data pricing template, but also our data pricing tool kit.
And therefore, the first thing we're gonna do here is to import the libraries.
So we're going to create a new Kotal here.
We're gonna go into our data pricing template to steal the cell we want, meaning this one and get it
back into our implementation.
The first cell.
All right.
That's the first thing.
However, I just want to show you something extra.
It is about the beauty of Google Kulab.
I want to show you that indeed, Tensor Flow 2.0 is already preinstalled in Google.
Kulab You know, in any Google Kulab notebook you will ever open.
So the way for me to show you this is to first import tends to flow because, OK.
It is already preinstalled as a library inside a notebook, but we still need to import it.
And in fact, here, since we will actually won't use matplotlib, we're just gonna delete this import
in this library.
And then just add as a third library here will tend to flow.
And the way to import tenses, who is dealt with indeed import then the name of the library, which
is Tenzer flow of course.
And then we add a shortcut, simple one like T.F..
The classic one.
OK.
And now I'm gonna create a new code cell.
And inside I'm going to enter the following T.F. Dot double underscore version, double underscore again.
And this will simply print the version of tensor flow we're using, which I just want to show you is
indeed Tenzer flow to write the brand new tensor flow.
So let's do this.
First, we need to execute the sale on this one.
But remember, if we execute the sale now, this will take some time because actually the notebook is
not running yet.
And the way to run this is just to click this folder here.
Right.
And it is now that it will connect to a runtime to enable file browsing, but mostly to, you know,
start running the notebook.
OK.
And at the same time, let's take the opportunity to upload the data set.
So please go to your machine learning.
Is that code and datasets folder which had to download either in the previous tutorial or at the beginning
of each practical activity.
So there we go inside then port.
A deepening almost close to the end, by the way, must be very excited, almost seeing the tip of the
tunnel.
Then let's go through this section on artificial neural network.
Let's go to Python and let's select this dataset churn modelling.
That's USV open.
Okay.
And there we go.
Now we have everything.
We had a dataset.
And besides, our notebook is already running.
As you can notice, it takes a little bit more time than usual because, you know, the dataset is this
time more real world and mostly bigger.
OK.
All right.
So let's do this.
Let's run this first cell here to important libraries.
This time, none by pendas intensive flow.
And now let's play this cell to indeed reassure ourselves that the tensor flow version we're gonna be
working with is two point 2.0, basically tensor flow two, which is so much better than tensor flow
one.
I'm so happy about their new version.
OK, great.
So it's good to have the confirmation.
And now.
Now let's tackle this part one data preprocessing.
We're gonna do this efficiently.
Thanks to our data progressing template and toolkit.
So let's create first and you coattail to import the data set, which we already have in a notebook.
Perfect.
So let's go to our data pricing template and let's now steal this second cell to import the data set.
All right.
Let's go back here and let's face that inside.
And now, of course, the question is, what do we need to replace?
Well, the obvious first change we need to do is the name of the dataset, which this time is not data
that C as V, but churn on score modeling.
That's easy.
Great.
Then let's look at the rows.
One by one.
This one is OK.
Now what about this one?
This line of code creates the matrix features X and the way it does this is it takes all the columns
except the last one.
But let's actually have a look again at our data.
Right.
We noticed when I described to you the dataset that the first columns are actually irrelevant in the
sense that they won't help to predict the outcome of the dependent variable.
And these columns are, you know, the non helpful columns are obviously this one.
This just gives the row number of this dataset.
So we clearly don't want to include it then customer idea as well.
Right.
The customer idea is just a key identifier of.
Each customer, because, you know, each row corresponds to a different customer.
So, of course, the customer I.D. has absolutely no impact on the dependent variable exited.
So we will also exclude that column.
We don't have to, you know, the new one that work, we'll just figure it out.
But let's just ease the learning process of our future new network.
Right.
We're all on the same boat here.
OK, then what about the surname?
Does the surname have an impact on whether the customer will stay in or leave the bank?
Well, absolutely not.
Right.
Surname, of course, has no impact on the decision of a customer to stay in or leave the bank.
So we will also exclude this column and then all the rest and all the other features here.
Look.
Fine.
They might have an impact on the dependent variable, meaning they might help to predict if each customer
will stay in the bank or leave the bank.
OK.
So we will definitely keep all the other ones, meaning all the features starting from this one two
credit score.
And so here in our implementation, instead of taking all the columns except the last one, well, we
will take all the columns starting from this one except the last one.
Meaning all the columns from credit score up to estimated salary.
And a way to do this is still to keep that upper bound of the range, you know, finishing at the one
before last column.
Right.
You know, that's exactly the upper bound.
That's the range.
But at the left of this range, we won't specify nothing, which means the first goal in the first index.
But instead, we will specify the index of the column.
We want to stop with.
Which is the credit score.
Right.
We know we want to start from here.
And therefore, now the question is, what is the index of that column?
Well, let's see.
Indexes and bitin start from zero.
So this has index zero then?
This has indexed one.
This has index two.
And this has the next three.
And therefore, here, instead of specifying nothing here as a lower bound of the range.
Well, we will specify the index three so that we can take all the columns starting from the column
of index three up to the one before last and taking all the rows, all the values of the dataset.
And this will create a relevant matrix of features.
Perfect.
So this line of code is done.
Now, what about the next one?
Well, obviously the next one is fine.
It will just take the last column of this dataset, which is exactly what we want for our dependent
variable exited.
So I'll go here.
Nothing to change.
We can just play this cell and we will have our data set, matrix of features and our dependent, viable
vector.
Let's check it out.
Actually, let's create two new code cells, right.
One where we will print the matrix of features X and one where we will print the dependent in viable
vector Y.
Perfect.
All right.
So let's do this now.
Actually, let's play for this self print.
The matrix of features X and there we go.
We have indeed all the features starting from the credit score.
This is a great score.
Then you know, the country of residence.
Then the gender and all the other ones, you know, has credit card.
Yes or no is active.
And the last one is the estimated salary.
OK.
So we have all these features.
Perfect.
And of course, we don't have the dependent variable values because they are right here in Y.
And there we go.
These are all the decisions of the customers to stay or leave in the bank.
So, of course, this one here corresponds to this customer here, which obviously has decided to leave
the bank.
Right.
This is actually this same one here, exited one.
And then, well, this second customer has decided to stay in the bank and corresponds to this one.
Right.
Which is exactly this one as well.
OK.
This customer.
All right.
All good so far.
First step of the data processing phase done successfully.
And now let's move on to the more advanced steps of our data pricing phase, which is about encoding
the category called data.
Right.
Of course, we noticed that there are two category variables.
This first one, giving the country of residence of the customers.
And the second one giving the gender of the customers.
So we'll have to do some encoding work here to encode these categorical data in either simple labels,
you know, zero and one for the gender or some one had encoding for this categorical variables in which
indeed there is no relationship order between these values, you know, between these categories, France,
Spain and Germany.
OK.
So let's do this.
Let's start first with the label, including of the gender column.
So let's create a new coattail.
And now, of course, to do it efficiently, we're gonna go into our data repricing.
Took it.
We're going to scroll down to find.
By the way, there is no missing data in the data said.
I check them, and in reality, you would also have to check them.
But all good.
We don't have to take care of any missing data so we can directly move to encoding categorical data.
And now, since we're taking care of label and coding the gender column, well, we're going to take
this.
That's exactly the tool we need to perform label encoding.
So I'm sealing this Kotel now and adding it inside our notebook.
Here are implementation.
But remember that in our data processing tool kit, we did this on the deben viable vector.
But now we want to do it on this specific column of the matrix of Features X and therefore, what we
only need to replace here is this Y by that specific column of the matrix of features, X to which we
want to apply label encoding.
And so.
Well, now the question is, how can we get this column?
Well, we just need to get the index and then call X with that index.
And so while there we go.
That's the first column of X.
It hasn't Exito.
That's the second column of X.
It has indexed one.
And that's the third column of X, which has index two.
And therefore, here we simply tend to replace Y by R matrix of features, X of which we're gonna take
all the rows.
And I'm taking them with this column, you know, which means a range in Python.
And then to take the column we want, meaning the gender column, which has index two.
Well, I just need to add here after the comma, the index too.
So there it will take all the rows, but only the column of index two.
And now, of course, we need to take this and paste that inside the fit transfer method called from
our L Object, which is an instance of the label encoder class and done.
We just performed successfully label, including to the gender column of our Matrix of Features X..
Let's make sure it's the case by creating a new code so here and do a new print of the matrix of features
X.
Let's run the cell, you know first.
All right, good.
And now let's print X and let's just make sure that we no longer see female, female, female, female,
male, female.
But whatever encoding there was, which probably will be one for female or, you know, zero for female
and zero for male or one for male.
Let's see what they did.
All right.
And there we go.
Right.
That's the new column after the label encoding.
And so female was encoded into zero and male was encoded into one.
That's, of course, a random decision of the machine to choose this.
Integers, associations.
So all good.
Now, this column is, well, label encoded.
And now we're going to proceed to the one hot encoding of the geography column.
And this time, we have indeed to perform one hutting coding because there is no auto relationship between
France, Spain and Germany.
So we couldn't, you know, encode France into zero than Spain into one and Jimin into three.
We have to perform one HUTZ encoding instead.
And so let's do this.
Let's go back toward data pricing tool kit.
Let's take that cell this time, which is executive cell that perform one hertz encoding.
And let's based it inside a new code cell to one hutting code.
The geography column.
All right.
Now, the question is, of course, what do we have to replace or change in that cell to indeed perform
one hutz, including on the geography column?
Well, remember, the only thing that you have to change inside this code is that index of the column
you want to apply one hot encoding on.
Right.
And remember that in our dataset.
Yes.
Which fell of our 41 day pricing.
Well, the category called variable with the three different states was in the first column.
That's why we had index zero here.
But this time, this column is actually the second column.
Therefore, it has indexed one.
And therefore, very simply, we just need to replace zero here by one.
OK.
And that's it.
All the rest will be done automatically.
Let me show you this.
Let's play that cell.
And now let's create a new code cell to print again X.
All right, good.
And now let's play that cell and see what X has become.
And indeed, well, remember, when we perform one hutting coding while the dummy variables are actually
moved to the first columns of the Matrix features, we have them exactly here, you know, in the three
first columns.
So let's see let's see how the one hutting going was done.
This is the first combination of dummy variables which corresponds to France.
You know, these are the same rows here.
And therefore, France was encoded into one zero zero.
Now, Spain was encoded in two zero zero one.
And finally, Germany was encoded into, well, this one zero one zero.
OK.
So that's our one.
Coding, then we no longer see the gender column, but nor is it is still here.
And so perfect.
One Hutting coding was not only done successfully, but also went on efficiently.
Thanks to our delivery pricing tool kit and template.
Good.
Now let's move onto the next step, which is to split the dataset into the training set and test it.
And once again, we're gonna do that so efficiently.
Thanks to this time or data pre pricing template.
Indeed, we have to steal now this cell that splits the dataset into the training set and test set.
So let's base that back into our implementation in a new code cell right here.
And then we can just justice.
Hundred percent.
We will just play that cell and we don't have to do a print of these four entities.
We perfectly understand how they work, but feel free to do it if you want.
You're free to do any modification in this copy, of course, of the notebook.
And finally, we have a final step of our data repricing phase, which is feature scaling.
And now I want to say something very, very important.
Feature scaling is absolutely compulsory for deep learning.
Whenever you build an artificial neural network, you have to apply feature scaling.
That's absolutely fundamental.
And it is so fundamental that we will actually apply feature skilling to all our features, you know,
regardless of whether they already have some values of zero and one, you know, like the dummy variables
and sympathy's ones who will just scale everything because it is so important to do it for deep learning.
So the feature scaling step here will be very simple.
We will just take our deal repressing took it.
We will go right at the end because I think this is our last tool.
Yes, there we go.
We will take that full sale and we will based it right back in a new code sale just below Fichus killing
will pace it here and now instead of selecting some specific indexes here, we'll just take everything.
So I'm just removing all our index selections here.
Right, so that we can just scale everything.
And that's the way it should be for neural network.
You know, for building and training a new network.
All right.
So perfect.
This will just apply features, killing to all the features of both the training set and the test set.
But, of course, AR scale object is only fitted to the training set.
Right.
Remember, it's to avoid information like it.
That doesn't change.
But there you go.
Now we have the code to perform features killing.
All ready.
So let's do this.
Let's run this final sale and then the data repressing phase will be over.
So congratulations.
I hope we did it efficiently enough for you.
That's the way it should be.
I'd like to remind, by the way, that, you know, the data pricing face counts for 70 percent of the
work of a data scientist.
So that's why it was really important for me to give you some very efficient data, be pressing template
and took it so that, as you can see, we can do it efficiently in less than 20 minutes.
You know, in less than 20 minutes with my explanation, but without the explanation, even in less
than 10 minutes.
So I hope you understand and appreciate the importance.
And now, my friends.
It is time for the exciting step.
The exciting part of this implementation.
I'm talking, of course, about point to building the then.
So there we go.
Recharge yourself with good energy.
And as soon as you're ready, let's tackle together part two, where we're going to build for the first
time an artificial brain leveraging tensor flow 2.0.
I can't wait to see you in the next.
It's oil.
And until then, enjoy machine learning.